Add Regex Literal proposal (#1636)
apple/swift-evolution: proposals/nnnn-regex-literals.md

- A `Substring` is always present for the entire match.
- If any captures are present, a tuple is formed with the `Substring`, with subsequent elements representing the capture types. Captures are ordered according to [their numbering][capture-numbering].

The type of a capture is `Substring` by default, however it gets wrapped in an optional if it is not guaranteed to have a value on a successful match. This occurs when it is nested within a quantification that may be zero, e.g `?`, `*`, and `{0,n}`:

```swift
let r = /([ab]+)?/
// regex: Regex<(Substring, Substring?)>
```

it also occurs when it appears as a child of an alternation:

```swift
let r = /([ab]+)|\d+/
// regex: Regex<(Substring, Substring?)>
```

The optional wrapping will nest arbitrarily if the capture is nested within multiple zero-quantifiers or alternations:

```swift
let r = /(.)*|\d/
// regex: Regex<(Substring, Substring??)>
``` 

> 

Reviewer: I don't think this behavior makes sense and I don't think we should let temporary (I hope) limitations from `RegexBuilder` spill over into permanently locking us into the wrong type system representation.

Reviewer: My takeaway from the meeting is that we want to type check this as

```swift
// regex: Regex<(Substring, Substring??)>
```

And we'll be exploring ways to explicitly drop a single layer of optionality for the DSL conversion (turtles all the way down)

Author: Updated to say that we will apply at most one layer of optionality. Do we want to talk about the DSL conversion in this proposal?

Reviewer: Hmm, hard to say. It's not a language/library thing (other than we happen to be using the same library as the parser to achieve it).

Author: Hmm yeah, in that case I think it's probably fine to leave as-is

### Typed captures

Regex literals have their capture types statically determined by the capture groups present. This follows a similar inference behavior to [the DSL][regex-dsl], and is explored in more detail in *[Strongly Typed Captures][strongly-typed-captures]*. We are proposing the following inference behavior for regex literals:

- A `Substring` is always present for the entire match.
- If any captures are present, a tuple is formed with the `Substring`, with subsequent elements representing the capture types. Captures are ordered according to [their numbering][capture-numbering].

The type of a capture is `Substring` by default, however it gets wrapped in an optional if it is not guaranteed to have a value on a successful match. This occurs when it is nested within a quantification that may be zero, which includes `?`, `*`, and any range quantifier with a `0` lower bound, e.g `{0,n}`. It also occurs when it appears in a branch of an alternation. For example:

```swift
let regex1 = /([ab])?/
// regex1: Regex<(Substring, Substring?)>

let regex2 = /([ab])|\d+/
// regex2: Regex<(Substring, Substring?)>
```

> This does not affect cases where the capture surrounds the zero quantifier or alternation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A zero quantifier or alternation nested within a capture do not produce an optional capture, unless the capture itself is inside a zero quantifier or alternation:
```
